# HeartBD2K
My side projects from my data science research internship at the HeartBD2K lab at UCLA are contained here.

My three most notable projects to date at this internship have been creating three R Shiny applications: [Significant Mapping](https://github.com/Key2-Success/HeartBD2K-Significant-Mapping), [Text Mining Demographics](https://github.com/Key2-Success/HeartBD2K-Text-Mining-Demographics), and [Geographic Data](https://github.com/Key2-Success/HeartBD2K-Geographic-Data), so I suggest you to check them out first! They are contained in their own separate repositories due to their sheer magnitude of importance. These projects contained inside this repository are either side projects that I worked on during my internship or code that led me to creating these two apps.

## Lessons Learned
I am most thankful to this lab for giving me this opportunity. Without it, I would not have learned these key lessons:
1. It's not about what you know coming in, but rather, it's about your potential to learn on the spot. I was hired to do multiple text-mining projects, when I had no idea what text-mining even meant when I came in. The internship truly tried my ability to learn skills on the job, and that's an extremely transferable skill that I have learned is crucial for any job. Thus far, I have learned so many new skills that I would not have imagined possible. Having an open learning mind is vital for any technical job!
2. Communicate with your supervisor and other coworkers often to make sure others know what you're working on and you're also aware of other's projects! Our lab is semi-large, with almost 20 members. Often, projects overlap and other people's works collide, so it is imperative to ensure that everyone's work is complementary to each other, not tangential or taking over it.
3. Communicate to get feedback from each other! I am also thankful to be surrounded by people of many backgrounds: clinicians, computer scientists, bioinformaticians, researchers, and biologists. Whenever I present what I have been working on, I always embrace the feedback of people with experiences and backgrounds vastly different than mine. 
4. Communicate to be able to share your story at a basic level! Because I work with people across various disciplines, it's imperative for me to be able to boil down what I am doing in non-technical terms. This, in essence, tests how much I truly understand what I am doing, because simplifying my technical code and statistical analyses to layman terms proves my complete command over each of my projects.
5. Be independent and be creative in trying new avenues that make sense to you! Many times, I am asked to do a very general task: analyze all this text data. Although intimidating at first, I break down the data and examine which features would be most useful to analyze. Being independent also gives me the freedom to choose my own questions and projects, and thus I have more fun doing work!
6. Get to know other lab members. As mentioned, I work in a lab with people of many disciplines. Learning from each other both in and outside the lab is an invaluable oppportunity to grow one's mind. Whenever I take a break, I grab the chance to chat up other members to get to know them better; these people are interesting and it's really liberating to get to know others on a more social level. 
7. Be organized! With over 30 R code files, it was of upmost importance to organize all of my code so I knew what each code did. I personally did this by creating an excel file (attached in this repository) that displays the importance of each file. 
8. Document/comment your code very well! With so many files and projects that span over multiple months, I would have easily forgotten what each line did were it not for my comments. This also helps other lab members understand what you're doing; sometimes I am required to share my code in order to optimize it or to have it be collaborated on, and it becomes very frustrating to deal with code that has no comments.
9. Seek help from all resources. Naturally, I run into multiple technical difficulties. I often look to StackOverflow for answers, and if after digging around my questions are still not resolved, I'll post a question on StackOverflow. In turn, I try to answer as many questions on StackOverflow as possible. I personally advocate strongly for StackOverflow (SO), because if it were not for SO, I would have never been introduced to so many optimizing libraries in R that work very, very well with large datasets. If SO is not sufficient, I turn to my supervisors for help as well. Don't be afraid of asking questions; it shows that you're bold and well-researched to ask for help. 
10. Have fun. In the end, this is work that should excite you. I am often in awe by what a few lines of code can do, and that fuels my enthusiasm for coding. I also immensely enjoy my co-workers and supervisors, and I attribute a lot of my happiness in the lab to their presence. 
